talks have been held in Cairo to try and
reach a ceasefire deal in Gaza Hamas has
demanded that Israel be bound by the
terms of the proposal put forth by Joe
Biden on July the 2nd in a statement the
group says we confirm our Readiness to
implement what was agreed upon in order
to achieve the interests of our people
and stop the aggression against them we
stressed in Cairo the necessity that any
agreement include a permanent ceasefire
and a complete withdrawal from the Gaza
Strip and must include the freedom for
residents to return to their home for
Relief and reconstruction and a captive
prisoner
exchange let's take this on with Ramy
Cory who's a distinguished fellow at the
American University of beut joins us now
from Long Island in New York Ramy great
deal to discuss here first up these
talks the SE far our talks where now for
them given that neither Hamas nor Israel
have agreed to any compromises presented
by mediators what
next well Hamas agreed to the
compromises that were put forth by Biden
in July 2 and after that Netanyahu and
Israel kept adding new conditions which
most people now realize is a delaying
tactic just to keep talking talking
talking and the Arab world has gone
through a really critical phase in the
last couple of years uh which is to
recognize that constantly going into
meetings to discuss new ideas and new
compromises and new ceasefires and
things that it's getting the Arab world
nowhere where and the epitome of this
was the Oslo Accords of
1993 where the Palestinians made all
kinds of sacrifices and concessions and
got nothing in return so Hamas
represents an aspect of this and his ba
represents an aspect of this which is to
stop playing games created by American
mediators who are at the same time the
the funders and the military providers
and diplomatic Protectors of Israel
which is carrying out the genocide so
you can't be a credible negotiator
mediator while you're also one party to
the genocide so the Hamas is taking this
stand now they agreed to the July two
proposals and this is something that
they're hoping the Israelis will also um
come back to and say all right let's
start with this and see what happens
later of course the AL backdrop to this
Remy is the the escalation and agression
on the Lebanese Israeli
border well this has been going on for
years and it escalated obviously since
October last year but this the stit
forat attack process has been happening
uh really since 2006 and the um
important Point here is to see that both
sides have pretty much played by those
rules um and now it's escalated beyond
that the scale of the attacks uh that
Israel has carried out the assassination
of fur in Beirut weeks ago this is
qualitatively different
sobah is responding and hisbah is doing
the same thing Hamas is doing which is
saying we're not going to play your game
uh a game that is set by the colonial
Powers uh and force expects us um the
local people to play ball and they're
not going to do that so I think we're
going to probably continue to see U
Mutual attacks but in limited areas as
we have for for years actually because
both sides realize that a war would be c
a full War would be catastrophic even if
it's just hisbah versus Israel forget
about Iran and others uh so this is
something that I think is likely to
Prevail in the uh in in the shortterm
but really the Breakthrough has to
happen when serious International
pressure that comes in and forces both
sides to move ahead with a ceasefire an
exchange of prisoners and
hostages humanitarian Aid and then get
the Israelis totally out of of Gaza
that's not going to happen by both sides
going to Cairo and Qatar every two weeks
but how much genuine pressure is the US
putting on Israel because the fact is it
is in the administration's interest to
get a ceasefire uh if the Democrats want
to win the next
election well that this is a new Factor
um the the Americans are not putting
serious pressure on the Israelis they
they've talk uh in a new language about
we've got to stop the civilian high
level of Civilian suffering and things
like that uh but they're not putting any
serious pressure they're continuing to
give Israel the money and the guns and
the Diplomatic protection uh that it
needs and this is one of the problems
the United States cannot be a credible
mediator while it is also the primary uh
funer and U military provider and
diplomatic uh shelter of the party
that's conducting the genocide which is
Israel this is totally uh bizarre and
and no other place in the world would
accept this and they think that the
Arabs will accept it because they've
gotten used to the Arabs being docile
helpless vulnerable and willing to do
anything that stops the shooting and
hisbah and Hamas reflect the new
mentality among many people in the
region that is um is different it won't
play it by this rule the fascinating
thing is the link to the American
election and you have in in the United
States also a new generation of Arab
American Muslim American black American
Hispanic American other leaders who have
spent the last 30 40 years working in
local U electoral politics and getting
into City councils and State assemblies
we have a seasoned crop of Arab um
Islamic and Arab American political
activists in their 40s and and 50s some
of them now and they are now involved
heavily in Democratic politics we don't
know yet if this pressure by these
people on the Democratic party to demand
and and force Israel to to make a ceas
fire we don't know if that pressure is
strong enough and can be and Ramy great
to get your perspective do appreciate
that Ramy Curry from the American
University of Beirut thank you
Remy thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz